Create solver description draft (#1)
mogproject/cluster-editing-2021: docs/pace-2021-description.tex

%\funding{(Optional) general funding statement \dots}%optional, to capture a funding statement, which applies to all authors. Please enter author specific funding statements as fifth argument of the \author macro.

%\acknowledgements{I want to thank \dots}%optional

%\nolinenumbers %uncomment to disable line numbering

\hideLIPIcs  %uncomment to remove references to LIPIcs series (logo, DOI, ...), e.g. when preparing a pre-final version to be uploaded to arXiv or another public repository

%Editor-only macros:: begin (do not touch as author)%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%
% \EventEditors{John Q. Open and Joan R. Access}
% \EventNoEds{2}
% \EventLongTitle{42nd Conference on Very Important Topics (CVIT 2016)}
% \EventShortTitle{CVIT 2016}
% \EventAcronym{CVIT}
% \EventYear{2016}
% \EventDate{December 24--27, 2016}
% \EventLocation{Little Whinging, United Kingdom}
% \EventLogo{}
% \SeriesVolume{42}
% \ArticleNo{23}
%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%

\newtheorem{rulex}[theorem]{Rule}

\begin{document}

\maketitle

%TODO mandatory: add short abstract of the document
\begin{abstract}

> This note describes our submission to the Exact track of PACE 2021: Cluster Editing. Our solver consists of two rounds: random search and exhaustive search. Both perform branch-and-bound procedures but with different branching strategies.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This note describes our submission to the Exact track of PACE 2021: Cluster Editing. Our solver employs a two-phase strategy: it first constructs a high-quality feasible solution via  random search, then performs a guided exhaustive search. Both phases are based on a branch-and-bound framework.
```

\end{abstract}

\section{Background}
\label{sec:typesetting-summary}

Given a graph $G=(V,E)$, the Cluster Editing Problem (CEP) asks for a smallest \textit{edge modification set} $S \subseteq \binom{V}{2} := \{\{u,v\} \mid u,v \in V \wedge u \neq v\}$ such that $G \ \Delta\ S := (V,(E \setminus S) \cup (S \setminus E))$ is a \textit{cluster graph}, that is, a disjoint union of complete graphs. A graph is a cluster graph if and only if it is $P_3$-free \cite{shamir2004cluster}.

> While solving for CEP, we treat a graph as an annotated graph $G=(V,E,F)$, where $F \subseteq \binom{V}{2}$ is union of a set of \textit{permanent non-edges} and \textit{permanent edges}. A permanent non-edge $\overline{e} \in F \setminus E$ is a non-edge that cannot be converted into an edge of a solution, and a permanent edge $e \in F \cap E$ is an edge that cannot be removed. Initially, we set $F=\emptyset$.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
While solving CEP, we always work with an annotated graph $G=(V,E,F)$, where $F \subseteq \binom{V}{2}$ are ``fixed'' relationships in the solution. That is, $F$ is the union of a set of \textit{permanent non-edges} ($\overline{e} \in F \setminus E$ whose endpoints cannot be adjacent in the solution) and \textit{permanent edges} ($e \in F \cap E$ that cannot be removed). Initially, we set $F=\emptyset$.
```

> The set of neighbors of a vertex $i$ is denoted by $N(i)$, and define $N[i] := N(i) \cup \{i\}$. The \textit{distance} between two vertices $i,j\in V$, denoted by $d_G(i,j)$, is the minimum number of edges of a path linking $i$ and $j$ in $G$. For a vertex pair $\{u,v\} \in \binom{V}{2}$, we denote by $\phi(u,v)$ the number of common neighbors, that is, $\phi(u,v):=|N(u)\cap N(v)|$. Likewise, the number of non-common neighbors except $\{u,v\}$ is denoted by $\mu(u,v):=|(N(u)\setminus N(v)) \cup (N(v)\setminus N(u))\setminus \{u,v\}|$.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We use  $N(i)$ and $N[I]$ to denote the open and closed neighborhoods of a vertex $i$, respectively. The \textit{distance} between two vertices $i,j\in V$ is denoted by $d_G(i,j)$ and equals the minimum number of edges in a $i,j$-path in $G$. For a vertex pair $\{u,v\} \in \binom{V}{2}$, we denote by $\phi(u,v)$ the number of common neighbors, that is, $\phi(u,v):=|N(u)\cap N(v)|$. Likewise, the number of non-common neighbors except $\{u,v\}$ is denoted by $\mu(u,v):=|(N(u)\setminus N(v)) \cup (N(v)\setminus N(u))\setminus \{u,v\}|$.
```

\section{Brief Description of Algorithm}

> Our solver developed for the Exact track of PACE 2021 consists of two rounds. The first round, or the pre-solving step, aims at finding the best solution quickly, by random search enhanced with local search. The second round is responsible for exhaustive search by ordinary branch-and-bound except for utilizing the result of the first round.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Our solver performs two rounds of computation. The first round, or pre-solve, aims to find the best solution quickly; here, we use random search enhanced with local search. The second round performs a branch-and-bound exhaustive search utilizing the result of the pre-solve as guidance.
```
